---
title: "Brewing good coffee"
date: 2019-07-19
draft: false

---

# Brewing good coffee

I started drinking coffee in high school. Every morning after rowing practice,
my friend and I would drive around the block to our neighborhood Starbucks
before first bell. In college I picked up a french press. The stuff I brewed
never tasted great – I'm not sure why, maybe my ratio of coffee:water was off,
or my beans were bad. Junior year, something clicked though. I got a hand burr
grinder. A Hario V60. I found beans that I enjoyed, iterated on, and became
increasingly more methodical with my process. Today, I don't change much; I've
found what works for me.

## Beans

I usually find my beans in local coffee shops / roasters. It's nice to sit down
for a minute and enjoy a cup of whatever they're brewing. And, if I like it, I
buy a bag. If you're just getting into coffee, trying a cup in the shop is cool
because it tells you what the coffee can taste like when brewed properly
(assuming it's a good shop). If I'm out of beans and not in a coffee shop mood,
Whole Foods usually has a nice selection or [Trade Coffee][] online. Without
good beans you can't brew good coffee. In a pinch I look for a light or medium
roast, whole bean, with a roast date in the last few months.

## Grind

I have an electric conical burr grinder at home. Previously I had a hand burr
grinder which worked well. These are less expensive, and also portable. I found
hand grinding to be rather cathartic at times, but it made brewing coffee for
more than one person a chore. The hand burr grinder could be nice for travel,
but I just pre-grind my beans before I leave. I haven't tested how a coffee is
impacted by the freshness of the grind.

There are many resources that talk in depth about which grinder to buy. Blade
grinders are less preferred as their grind is inconsistent, but whatever gets
the job done. I've found that if you shake the blade grinder as you grind the
coffee, the result is more even. You can also just grind your coffee at the
store.

## Water

I set my kettle to 200° F at home, or about 30 seconds off a boil anywhere else
that I can heat up water. I haven't tested other temperatures but I think this
is generally what people recommend and I've been happy with it.

## Brew method

There are many different ways to brew coffee, and corresponding guides for each.
My favorite is the Chemex. I enjoy its design, ease of cleanup, and ability to
brew/hold multiple cups at once in the carafe. I use a ratio of 14g water : 1g
coffee and aim for ~3min pours.

If I'm traveling, I have an AeroPress that I will sometimes pack. For camping, a
camp mug + tea infuser combo is compact and makes a satisfying cup. It's
essentially a french press: I measure out some coarsely ground coffee and steep
for 4 minutes.

I've never owned a coffee machine but I think there are some decent ones out
there.

## Takeaways

Both _how_ you brew coffee and _what_ you're brewing are important variables.
Equipment can be expensive, but you don't need to buy it all just to make a good
cup of coffee. In learning, it helps to control for as many variables as
possible. Tweaking one thing in isolation day-to-day will make it easier to find
a repeatable process to start your day off right.

[Trade Coffee]: https://www.drinktrade.com
